README.md, before:

# Awesome Tech Ethics Resources

## Toolkits

- [IDEO's AI ethics cards](https://page.ideo.com/download-ai-ethics-cards) - activities to "help guide an ethically responsible, culturally considerate, and humanistic approach to designing with data."
- [Spotify Ethics Guild's ethics assessment](https://spotify.design/article/investigating-consequences-with-our-ethics-assessment) - a tool for identifying ethical considerations when designing a product or service.
- [Sweet summer child score](https://github.com/summerscope/summerchildpy) - an interactive quiz to identify the possibility of harm to people and communities by a socio-technical system.
- [The Tarot Cards of Tech](https://tarotcardsoftech.artefactgroup.com/) - a set of questions designed to help creators more fully consider the impact of technology.

## Media

- [Tech Won't Save Us podcast](https://www.techwontsave.us) - Tech Won’t Save Us challenges the notion that tech alone can drive our world forward by showing that tech is inherently political and ignoring that has serious consequences. It encourages listeners to think beyond the confines of the capitalist tech industry, to consider how we can dismantle oppressive technologies, and how technology can be developed for the public good.
- [Ethics and Data Science report](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/ethics-and-data/9781492043898/), Mike Loukides, Hilary Mason, and DJ Patil - practical ways for making ethical data standards part of your work every day. Available to [read online for free](https://resources.oreilly.com/examples/0636920203964/).

## Education

- [Ethics, Technology + Public Policy for Practitioners](https://online.stanford.edu/courses/soe-xetech0001-ethics-technology-public-policy-practitioners) - an online course from Stanford University covering the ethical and social challenges that the technology sector faces throughout product and operational decision-making.

## Organisations

- [The Ada Lovelace Institute](https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org) - An independent research institute with a mission to ensure data and AI work for people and society.
- [The Algorithmic Justice League](https://www.ajl.org) - an organization that raises awareness about the impacts of AI, equips advocates with empirical research, builds the voice and choice of the most impacted communities, and galvanizes researchers, policy makers, and industry practitioners to mitigate AI harms and biases.
- [All Tech Is Human](https://alltechishuman.org/) - bringing together people, organizations, and ideas to tackle wicked tech & society issues and co-create a tech future aligned with the public interest.
- [Center for Humane Technology](https://www.humanetech.com/) - envisioning a world with technology that respects our attention, improves our well-being, and strengthens communities.
- [The Design Justice Network](https://designjustice.org/) - A home for people who are committed to embodying and practicing the [Design Justice Network Principles](https://designjustice.org/principles).
- [The Distributed AI Research Institute](https://www.dair-institute.org/) - The Distributed AI Research Institute is a space for independent, community-rooted AI research, free from Big Tech’s pervasive influence.
- [Omidyar Network: Responsible Technology](http://omidyar.com/responsible-technology-2/) - social change venture that reimagines critical systems, and the ideas that govern them, to build more inclusive and equitable societies. Responsible technology is one of its three key focus areas.
- [Organization for Ethical Source](https://ethicalsource.dev) - develops tools and standards to promote fair, ethical, and equitable outcomes for everyone who contributes to, benefits from, or is impacted by open source technologies.

## Company-specific

- [Amazonians: We Won't Build It](https://twitter.com/WeWontBuildIt) - "Amazon workers calling for accountability and transparency in the tech we build. "
- [Googlers for Human Rights](https://twitter.com/EthicalGooglers)
- [@githubbers](https://twitter.com/githubbers/) - GitHub workers, demanding that GitHub management cancel the ICE contract.
- [Microsoft Workers 4 Good](https://twitter.com/MsWorkers4) - "Our mission is to empower every worker to hold Microsoft accountable to their stated values".

## See also

- [Awesome Accessibility](https://github.com/brunopulis/awesome-a11y)
- [Awesome Diversity](https://github.com/folkswhocode/awesome-diversity)
- [Awesome Green Software](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software)
- [Awesome tech for good](https://github.com/TechforgoodCAST/awesome-techforgood)
- The ["Digital Rights & Ethics" section of the Green Web Syllabus](https://www.zotero.org/groups/4399301/green-web-syllabus/collections/TFLY9RC3/items/YXMPV7WI/collection)
- [Organize.fyi](https://organize.fyi/)

Commit message:

Add a couple of Tethix links, and responsibletech.work

README.md, after:

# Awesome Tech Ethics Resources

## Toolkits

- [IDEO's AI ethics cards](https://page.ideo.com/download-ai-ethics-cards) - activities to "help guide an ethically responsible, culturally considerate, and humanistic approach to designing with data."
- [The ResponsibleTech.Work framework](https://responsibletech.work) - an open-source framework developed by tech workers for tech workers. It equips tech workers with practical tools for more responsible product development.
- [Spotify Ethics Guild's ethics assessment](https://spotify.design/article/investigating-consequences-with-our-ethics-assessment) - a tool for identifying ethical considerations when designing a product or service.
- [Sweet summer child score](https://github.com/summerscope/summerchildpy) - an interactive quiz to identify the possibility of harm to people and communities by a socio-technical system.
- [Tethix Elemental Sparks](https://tethix.co/paper-sparks/) - printouts for origami [chatterboxes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paper_fortune_teller) to spark conversations about AI, data, fairness, and other sociotechnical challenges.
- [The Tarot Cards of Tech](https://tarotcardsoftech.artefactgroup.com/) - a set of questions designed to help creators more fully consider the impact of technology.

## Media

- [Tech Won't Save Us podcast](https://www.techwontsave.us) - Tech Won’t Save Us challenges the notion that tech alone can drive our world forward by showing that tech is inherently political and ignoring that has serious consequences. It encourages listeners to think beyond the confines of the capitalist tech industry, to consider how we can dismantle oppressive technologies, and how technology can be developed for the public good.
- [Ethics and Data Science report](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/ethics-and-data/9781492043898/), Mike Loukides, Hilary Mason, and DJ Patil - practical ways for making ethical data standards part of your work every day. Available to [read online for free](https://resources.oreilly.com/examples/0636920203964/).

## Education

- [Ethics, Technology + Public Policy for Practitioners](https://online.stanford.edu/courses/soe-xetech0001-ethics-technology-public-policy-practitioners) - an online course from Stanford University covering the ethical and social challenges that the technology sector faces throughout product and operational decision-making.

## Organisations

- [The Ada Lovelace Institute](https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org) - An independent research institute with a mission to ensure data and AI work for people and society.
- [The Algorithmic Justice League](https://www.ajl.org) - an organization that raises awareness about the impacts of AI, equips advocates with empirical research, builds the voice and choice of the most impacted communities, and galvanizes researchers, policy makers, and industry practitioners to mitigate AI harms and biases.
- [All Tech Is Human](https://alltechishuman.org/) - bringing together people, organizations, and ideas to tackle wicked tech & society issues and co-create a tech future aligned with the public interest.
- [Center for Humane Technology](https://www.humanetech.com/) - envisioning a world with technology that respects our attention, improves our well-being, and strengthens communities.
- [The Design Justice Network](https://designjustice.org/) - A home for people who are committed to embodying and practicing the [Design Justice Network Principles](https://designjustice.org/principles).
- [The Distributed AI Research Institute](https://www.dair-institute.org/) - The Distributed AI Research Institute is a space for independent, community-rooted AI research, free from Big Tech’s pervasive influence.
- [Omidyar Network: Responsible Technology](http://omidyar.com/responsible-technology-2/) - social change venture that reimagines critical systems, and the ideas that govern them, to build more inclusive and equitable societies. Responsible technology is one of its three key focus areas.
- [Organization for Ethical Source](https://ethicalsource.dev) - develops tools and standards to promote fair, ethical, and equitable outcomes for everyone who contributes to, benefits from, or is impacted by open source technologies.
- [Tethix](https://tethix.co) - "Tech ethics that makes you smile".

## Company-specific

- [Amazonians: We Won't Build It](https://twitter.com/WeWontBuildIt) - "Amazon workers calling for accountability and transparency in the tech we build. "
- [Googlers for Human Rights](https://twitter.com/EthicalGooglers)
- [@githubbers](https://twitter.com/githubbers/) - GitHub workers, demanding that GitHub management cancel the ICE contract.
- [Microsoft Workers 4 Good](https://twitter.com/MsWorkers4) - "Our mission is to empower every worker to hold Microsoft accountable to their stated values".

## See also

- [Awesome Accessibility](https://github.com/brunopulis/awesome-a11y)
- [Awesome Diversity](https://github.com/folkswhocode/awesome-diversity)
- [Awesome Green Software](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software)
- [Awesome tech for good](https://github.com/TechforgoodCAST/awesome-techforgood)
- The ["Digital Rights & Ethics" section of the Green Web Syllabus](https://www.zotero.org/groups/4399301/green-web-syllabus/collections/TFLY9RC3/items/YXMPV7WI/collection)
- [Organize.fyi](https://organize.fyi/)
